- [Instructor] We have now seen how serverless works
at a very high level,
so let's take a look at why one would want to do this.
First and foremost is cost savings.
With serverless, you get the ability to scale
based on your need.
But instead of scaling for your highest demand,
you're scaling by the operation,
and you're paying for just the operation,
and by doing so, you are not paying
for your peak usage throughout the year,
as I previously stated.
You also get benefits from reduced maintenance.
So even though a VM may be in the cloud,
you still have maintenance that you have to do on it.
You've got to upgrade your VM,
you've got to patch components.
And with serverless, you simply deploy your code;
you don't do any of those maintenance activities
on your VM itself.
Now, separation is another key benefit of using serverless.
There is no longer a need to cram disjointed operations
into a single VM in order to maximize its value.
You get some security and permissions benefits as well,
because usually with serverless,
these functions are operating in their own little sandbox,
and that sandbox has its own security
and its own permissions associated with it,
and you're not crossing threads with other functions
that may be operating in the same VM pool.
Again, something that you don't get
when you're trying to cram multiple operations
into a single VM pool itself.
Another benefit of this separation is
it solves many of the async patterns that we have
by reducing the waste associated with it.
Let me give you an example.
Traditionally, when we write a messaged listener,
we run that on a server
that is actively pulling against the messaging system
to determine if there is a message to act on,
and in doing so, it's using resources,
but there's a lot of waste associated with that.
With serverless, we actually trigger the serverless function
based on the presence of a message.
And this, again, reduces our waste
but allows us a just-in-time operation
that reduces overall costs
since we're only paying for the operation itself.
Now, let's talk a little bit more
about asynchronous operations,
because most if not all serverless functions
tend to end up being some form of an asynchronous process.
Even if it's running on a website,
a lot of times we will front that with some sort of CDN
that actually makes the operation itself async.
Now, not always,
but asynced is a very strong pattern,
and it's worth talking about.
The serverless functions can be a key player
in asynchronous operations,
especially as you move into a public cloud ecosystem.
Again, it reduces the waste of waiting.
That waiting operation is nothing but a wasteful event
when you're dealing with operations of scale
on a VM consumption model.
It's also much easier to isolate and respond
in a serverless function type behavior,
because each listener will respond
based on a function itself
as opposed to a listener pool
that responds to many different cues.
It also offers a lot of flexibility
in that you can scale multiple operations
within a serverless function
by chaining them together
instead of tying them all to individual listeners.
A lot of times, we would do things in async
where the first listener would do some operation
and put a message back on a queue
so that another listener could pick it up.
Well, with serverless functions,
we can simply trigger the next in the chain
without the intermediate queue
that was really a fancy way of doing piping
across a large-scale operation.
Now, let's talk about some of the "-ilities"
that we get to solve with serverless functions.
The first is scalability.
Because we're dealing with an individual function
and we're paying for the operation of that function,
we can have as many of them running
at any given point in time that we need to,
and each of them is usually within the cloud provider
isolated into its own runtime and own sandbox,
even if it's the same function running 10, 20, 30 times
in a given period of time.
Serverless functions also give us maintainability.
Because each distinct function only does one task,
we're not deploying a pool of operations
to do many different tasks.
This increases our maintainability,
because when we have to modify an individual function,
we're only impacting that function,
of course reducing the risk associated with regressions
across a pool of operations.
Serverless functions tend to be very easy to deploy,
especially within cloud operations.
Because of their ease in deployability and maintainability,
they give us a speed to market function
that comes along with it.
And that's another ability
that kind of comes behind the scenes
from maintainability and deployability.
And obviously, with serverless functions,
you get a lot of flexibility.
You can do just about anything you could imagine
in a serverless function.
And by only paying for the operation,
you get all of the benefits without a lot of the pain
that is associated with deploying large-scale operations
to handle a multitude of single functions.